{"rssfeed":{"date":1406194200000,"link":"http:\/\/www.gamespot.com\/articles\/road-to-gamescom-terms-and-conditions\/1100-6421285\/","source":"Video Game News at Gamespot","text":"GameSpot and Activision \u201CRoad to Gamescom\u201D 2014 Contest - Terms and ConditionsThe ContestThe GameSpot and Activision \u201CRoad to Gamescom\u201D 2014 Contest (hereby referred as \"Contest\") is organized by CBS Interactive Ltd and Activision Blizzard UK Limited. CBS Interactive is responsible for the first part of the Contest, which is the publication and adjudication of the prize draw. All other facilities connected with the provision of the Prize are the responsibility of Activision Blizzard UK Limited.Qualifying PeriodThe Contest will be held from 21st July 2014 to 4th August 2014. Entries submitted after 1st August July 2014 will not be valid.The OrganizersCBS Interactive Ltd (referred to as \"CBS\" or \"Organizer\"), 5-11 Lavington Street, London, SE1 0NZ and Activision Blizzard UK Limited, Stockley Park, 3 Roundwood Avenue, Uxbridge, UB11 1AFThe PrizeTrip to Gamescom 2014 for the winner plus one other (the \u201CPlus One\u201D). The winner and their Plus One will be driven on an Activision coach from London to Cologne, Germany, and given VIP access to Activision and Microsoft events, as well as hands on time with Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare. All travel and hotel expenses will be provided for by Activision. Departure date is Sunday, 10th of August and return date is Thursday 14th of August, 2014. Four nights pre-arranged accommodation at the hotel in Dusseldorf (Hotel Neuss) and meals are included, along with Exhibitor tickets to Gamescom 2014 on Wednesday 13th August, 2014. Selected activities may include a welcome dinner, visit to the Movie Park, drinks event, Microsoft event.1. Eligibility1.1To qualify to win, the entrant must be the holder of a personal registered Twitter account. Registration for the contest will be via Twitter. To enter, contestants will need to Re-Tweet a specific Tweet from the GameSpot Twitter account. The Tweet will contain a link to a GameSpot article that will contain details of how to enter the competition, as well as the terms and conditions. Re-Tweeting the Tweet will enter the contestant into a random draw that will take place on 1st August 2014. Only one entry to the competition is permitted. Contestants are only allowed to Re-Tweet the tweet once. Multiple Re-Tweets will result in disqualification. Anyone found to be using multiple Twitter accounts to enter the competition more than once will be disqualified. Information on how to enter this promotion and prize details forms part of these Terms and Conditions. The deadline for entering is Thursday, 31 July at 2359 (London time) (\u201CEntry Deadline\u201D).1.2Each entrant is entitled to only one Contest entry and entries must be made by the registered Twitter account holder. No purchase is required.1.3Entries will be declared by the authorized account holder of the Twitter handle submitted at the time of entry. All non-valid and incomplete contact details will be disqualified, at the discretion of the Organizer.1.4The Contest is open to participants who are 18 years and older by the Entry Deadline and who reside in the United Kingdom. The winner\u2019s Plus One must be 18 years or older by the departure date. The winner and the Plus One must be able and available to travel to Germany between 10th August, 2014, and 14th August, 2014, and have the necessary travel documents and legal rights to entry to Germany. The winner may not have any unspent criminal convictions and both the winner and the Plus One must sign the Activision Conduct, Consent &amp; Release Form as a condition of winning.1.5Employees of the Organizer as well as their respective affiliated and subsidiary companies, its advertising\/promotion agencies or other firms involved in the design or conduct of the Survey, their respective sales representatives, distributors, retailers, and members of the households or immediate families are not eligible to participate.1.6False and\/or deceptive entries or acts shall render entrants ineligible. The Organizers reserve the right to disqualify any entrant, entry or person reasonably believed to be responsible for or associated with:- entries made using multiple Twitter accounts or othe duplicate entires - entries made by third parties- entries made using technological means to attempt to circumvent these Terms and Conditions or which breach the Twitter Terms of Service- entries in respect of which the Organizers have grounds to suspect have been made by cheating, deception or other unsportsman-like conduct2. Selection of Winners and Conditions2.1The entries will be entered into a prize draw and one winner will be drawn at random at the CBSI offices on 1st August 2014. The entrants will be entered into a spreadsheet and each assigned a number. A random number generated by http:\/\/www.random.org\/ will then be used to pick the winner.2.2The decision made by the Organizer or its appointed judges are final and binding in all manners and no appeals shall be entertained for any reasons whatsoever.2.3You shall not submit to the Organizer any material which violates or infringes in any way upon the rights of the Organizer or any third party, which is unlawful, threatening, abusive, defamatory, harassing, harmful, invasive of privacy or publicity rights, vulgar, obscene, profane or otherwise objectionable, which encourages conduct that would constitute a criminal offense, give rise to civil liability or otherwise violate any law, or which, without the Organizer\u2019s express prior approval, contains advertising or any solicitation with respect to products or services, including other websites or blogs.2.4You shall not submit any material protected by copyright, trademark or other proprietary right without the express written permission of the owner of the copyright, trademark or other proprietary right and the burden of determining that any material is not protected by copyright rests with you. You shall be solely liable for any damages or losses resulting from any infringement of copyrights, proprietary rights, privacy rights, or any other harm resulting from such a submission and\/or the Organizer\u2019s decision to publish your material.2.5By submitting material to the Organizer, you agree to grant and assign to the Organizer all copyright and other intellectual property rights in the submitted material (including but not limited to text, video, photographic images, graphics and illustrations) royalty-free, without restriction and for use and exploitation in any and all media (via all means of distribution) worldwide and in perpetuity. You also agree to waive any related, ancillary, legal and moral rights that you may have in the submitted material.3. Announcement of Results3.1The winners will be notified by Twitter via the Twitter handle associated with the entry by 1st August 2014 (\u201CNotification\u201D). Notification will be deemed received by the winner on the date and at the time that it was sent by the Contest Organizer. The winner must acknowledge the Notification within 5 days from the date on which the Twitter message is sent by the Organizer.3.3In the event that the winner is not able to accept the Prize, or has not acknowledged the Notification as required by paragraph 3.2, another winner will be selected and such substitute winner will receive a Notification in accordance with paragraph 3.2.3.2Details of the winner will be published on the GameSpot website. By submitting your entry you acknowledge and consent to the publication of your name and other personal details provided by you on the Organizers\u2019 websites. Acceptance of a Prize further constitutes permission to use winner's name and likeness for publicity and advertising purposes worldwide without limitation and without additional compensation (except where prohibited).See also clause 5.3 of these Terms and Conditions.4. Prize Fulfillment4.1The Organizer may request and the winners may be required to prove that they satisfy the eligibility criteria set out in clause 1, above.4.2The Organizer will not be responsible for any lost, late, incomplete, illegible, damaged or misdirected entries, or for any human or technical errors, failures or malfunctions in the transmission or receipt of Internet entries. The winner may be required to sign and return an affidavit of eligibility, and liability and publicity release where permitted within 5 days of notification of winning the Prize. In the event of non-compliance with these terms and conditions, the Prize may be forfeited and awarded to an alternate winner, at the discretion of the Organizer.4.3All ancillary costs, for example additional delivery charges, duties and other taxes (including but not limited to any personal income tax), and costs associated with accessing the Survey and Contest are the sole responsibility of each entrant.4.4The Prize is not exchangeable or redeemable for cash and non-transferable. The Organizer reserves the right to replace any Prize with another of equivalent value without notice, including the equivalent cash value. The Organizer accepts no responsibility for any variation in the prize values.4.5By accepting the Prize, the winner agrees that the Organizer and its respective subsidiary and affiliated companies and their respective advertising, promotion and distribution agencies, hosting media, affiliates, officers, directors, and employees shall have no liability of any kind arising from or in connection with the acceptance, possession or use of the Prizes awarded herein and acknowledges that above mentioned parties are not in any manner responsible or liable for any warranty, representation, or guarantee, expressed or implied, in fact or law, relative to any prize including but not limited to its quality, mechanical condition or fitness for a particular purpose.4.6To the extent permitted by law, all entrants release from and indemnify the Organizer against all liability (including negligence), cost, loss or expense arising out of acceptance of any prizes or participation in the Contest, including, but not limited to, loss of income, loss of opportunity and damage to property, including damage caused to any website or application of the Organizer, whether direct, indirect, special or consequential.5. General5.1The Organizers reserve the right to, in their sole discretion, cancel or suspend the Contest should a virus, bugs or other causes beyond the control of the Organizers corrupt the administration, security or proper operation of the Contest. The Organizers reserve the right to make any changes to the prize and these Terms and Conditions at any time without prior notification.5.2The Organizers make no warranty, either express or implied, regarding this web site or any of its content, including but not limited to, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. The Organizers do not warrant that the content and delivery of this web site shall be free from errors, bugs or viruses, uninterrupted, or repairable if damaged or impaired.5.3All entries become the property of the Organizers. By entering the Contest, the entrant irrevocably consents to the use of all information contained within the entry for marketing purposes by the Organizers. The entrant also consents to information contained within the entry being made available to affiliates and authorized business partners of the Organizers. Demographic and profile data will also be collected and used to tailor user experience, consistent with the Organizers\u2019 privacy policies, located here and here.5.4The laws of England and Wales shall govern the Contest and these Terms and Conditions and the courts of London, England, shall have jurisdiction in respect of all disputes arising from or connected to the Contest and these Terms and Conditions.5.5Entry into this promotion shall be deemed an acknowledgment and acceptance of these Terms and Conditions. The Organizers accept no responsibility for illegible, damaged, late or misdirected entries\/claims for any reason. Proof of posting or sending notice by electronic means shall not constitute proof of delivery. The Organizer\u2019s decision in relation to any aspect of this promotion is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into.5.6 In the event of war, terrorism, state of emergency or disaster, the Organizer reserves the right (subject to the laws and regulations of state authorities) to cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the promotion, subject to an written directions or conditions from any other relevant state or authority.","title":"Road to Gamescom Terms and Conditions"}}
