{"rssfeed":{"date":1406339731229,"link":"http:\/\/www.joystiq.com\/2014\/05\/23\/tropico-5-review-new-presidente-same-as-the-old-presidente\/","source":"Joystiq","text":"Tropico 5 is another fine example of why the franchise is at the forefront of the simulation genre, but now, more than ever, the series has clearly gotten lost in its own iteration. For veterans of Tropico, the latest installment is a continuation of the evolution we've seen since Tropico 3, but newcomers to the series would be best served by Tropico 4, which had a clearer sense of self.The premise of the banana republic sim remains the same. You are El Presidente, glorious leader of the Tropican people, attempting to build a paradise of your design in a now-persistent island nation through various multi-hour missions. Pushing back against your ambition are the world powers (now from various eras). You will maintain control and prosper by having your citizens plant farms, herd cattle, create institutions of higher learning, revel in bureaucracy, mobilize a standing army ... and embezzle some cash in your personal Swiss bank account.Some of the key enjoyable components of Tropico remain. The writing is playful and brings a colorful narrative to a simulation game. Placing buildings is still a dream and cleaner than ever. It also continues to be a nice touch that if you play as La Presidenta (instead of El Presidente) there's a well-executed female voiceover. The mechanics are sound. If you're a casual fan of the series and all you're looking for is a fresh sandbox with salsa music, El Presidente's got your back.The inescapable itching irritation that becomes a burning flaw in Tropico 5's campaign is the introduction of time periods. An idea meant to ease new players into the world by creating a tiered progression, it gets in its own way with awkward results. Represented by the Colonial, World War, Cold War and Modern Eras, they act as artificial barriers to technology development. The addition of a tech tree not only makes systems convoluted, but is done with the elegance of a three-year-old using markers to draw a Frida Kahlo painting.Continue reading Tropico 5 review: New presidente, same as the old presidenteTropico 5 review: New presidente, same as the old presidente originally appeared on Joystiq on Fri, 23 May 2014 12:15:00 EST.  Please see our terms for use of feeds.Permalink&nbsp;|&nbsp;Email this&nbsp;|&nbsp;Comments","title":"Tropico 5 review: New presidente, same as the old presidente"}}
