{"rssfeed":{"date":1406200020000,"link":"http:\/\/www.gamespot.com\/articles\/comic-con-2014-final-fantasy-director-designs-wild\/1100-6421286\/","source":"Video Game News at Gamespot","text":"A new take on Batman will soon be added to Square Enix's Play Arts Kai line of collectibles. It's not the first, but it is notable because of who's creating it: Tetsuya Nomura, best known for his extensive work on the Final Fantasy and Kingdom Hearts series.Square Enix announced today that a new, original design from Nomura will be joining the Play Arts Kai collection. Details on price, release date, and even a final name--\"Batman (Designed by Tetsuya Nomura)\" is what it's going by for now--have not yet been revealed, but we do have the first images (above and below) of what it looks like.San Diego Comic-Con attendees will have the opportunity to see a prototype of the new action figure for themselves. Those at the show can swing by the Square Enix booth (#3829) at the show, which begins today and runs through Sunday, July 27. Nomura will also be doing an autograph signing for those who purchase select Play Arts Kai figures. More details are available on Square Enix's website.Nomura has worked for Square Enix for more than two decades (meaning he worked for it back when it was just plain old \"Square\"). He's done design work on more than a dozen Final Fantasy games and the Kingdom Hearts games. He's also served as a director or producer on many of these games, including the original Kingdom Hearts and the upcoming Final Fantasy XV.You might think of Square Enix exclusively as a game developer and publsiher, but its merchandise division offers a fairly wide selection of action figures. These figures features characters from Square Enix's own properties, as well as those of others (including Titanfall, Metal Gear Solid V, Robocop, and DC Comics).GameSpot will be bringing you coverage straight from SDCC in the coming days. For a full list of the confirmed games and game-related panels that will be at the show, check out our full rundown.Chris Pereira is a freelance writer for GameSpot, and you can follow him on Twitter @TheSmokingManXGot a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com","title":"Comic-Con 2014: Final Fantasy Director Designs Wild New Batman Action Figure"}}
